The party seeks a caravan to get to Menagerie, which is not labeled on any maps. The head of the caravan they find says that he leaves in seven days, but Thiala doesn't want to wait long in a populated area. The caravan guy says safe passage to Menagerie through the desert depends on the Copper Dragonlord's whims. He suggests heading out straight west as best as the party can: "Just know the sands are under the Dragonlord's protection, but that doesn't mean they are without threat. Do not let your guard down because the clouds above are guiding your path, that's a metaphore, the Dragonlord's methods of guidance are rarely so simple."
Thiala has made the patron dragon of Azurport aware of the party's intent to cross, and word will reach the Dragonlord.

Larry modifies the cart to have a sled instead of wheels. With the party's mini-caravan set up, they start heading west into the desert. Jenga thinks it is even more boring than Maplewood and makes the mistake of slapping a cactus from a moving vehicle, and she and Lunima are in the flying palanquin.
The next morning of travel, Thiala is unconscious, so Jenga swaps places with her and rides her camel, [[Spit Turret]]. There is a distant silhouette of a dragon passing every hour or so. It's always copper, but not always the same dragon every time. The party find dunes in the shape of dragons, and this seems far more funny than it should.

Proceeding, they find a gash in the sand from a crashed airship. While investigating, they are interrupted by two purple worms coming up from the ground. They defeat them, and the fight is witnessed by figures on a nearby hill. They resemble humanoid hippos, and one of them with a large tricorn hat and an iron wand-like thing brings a flying boat around to them to talk. He says he is not from this "crystal sphere" and explains that the worms have been menacing his ship for a while now. Their astralpath (navigator) fell ill to a sickness their medic could not fix, but the spelljammer requires a magic user to pilot it. They want the party to help cure the illness, and in exchange, will upgrade the cannons and give something they call 'guns.'

They demonstrate their guns for the party, and everyone is impressed. The pistol is made of an iron carbon alloy called steel. The giff try to explain the planar wheel to Jenga but she's too dumb and disinterested.
This giff is [[Jacques Floquart]] and he brings the party to his vessel, a warship with twice as many guns as usual, large jet engines on the sides, and the sails replaced with a translucent material, with a large device on the forecastle. It's almost fully intact. He explains that it was on ptrol to deal with the worms, and he requests that the party use magic as little as possible as his men are paranoid about it.

The interior is strange, a mix or intricate steamwork, clockwork, and machinery. There is lots of sigiling done with magic but not so much via a spell effect as more of an enchantment. Away from the helm of the ship, wrapped in blankets, is a blue tiefling woman. Her face is nearly purple with the amount of blood in it. The party shows the giff their strange medical supplies (obtained from the well in session 47) and the giff identify some of it but are mostly confused. There seems to be something needed to be conducted along the metal but there's no runing with which to input arcane energy.

Yri does Lay on Hands on the tiefling. Her fever is reduced, her heartrate slows, the disease effects leave. But when the radiance fades, something still lingers. 
Examination revealed sores that are like parasites, unintentionally gowing in rune-like patterns. Sarya tries to use the scalpel to remove them as Yri uses Lay on Hands but fails. Ruey takes over and it actually very good with the knife, removing the bumps as her wildfire spirit cauterizes the wounds. The symptoms thankfully don't return. The tiefling needs a blood transfusion, which for some reason Ruey knows how to do, and she is famliar with the blood transfusion device from the medical equipment. There is the issue of blood compatability, but the party selects Finnwell, as he shares blood that is magical in nature with the nagas of Isle Boros. The transfusion works, and the astralpath is safe from illness.

The party gets guns and enjoys a meal with the giff, eating escargot and gelato. Lunima accidentally incites the giff by teleporting on their ship, and they draw their guns, leaving Jenga to try and de-escalate the situation. Thankfully, it's resolved without violence.

#recap